why do I tuck my elbows when I bench
press good question I'll tell you why
now let's talk about as a few mechanisms
to this a lot of people say it's
shoulder Health what part of the
shoulder do we want to keep healthy when
we flare the elbows what's the potential
thing that's impinging the main bones
here in this joint which is a
glenohumeral joint okay so when we flare
the elbows for some people we are
shortening the space between the upper
arm which is a humorous okay and this
bone that's part of the scapula the
acromium okay so what happens is there's
a muscle or a tendon for the muscle that
passes through this space did I know
what that tendon is supraspinatus tendon
very good so the supinatus tendon passes
through that space and when we abduct
abduct that humorus to 90° we are
shortening that space on some people not
on all people and therefore we can be
creating some type of impingement where
the bone is rubbing on that supinatus
tendon on healthy shoulders when we AB
duct the humorous the scapula will
rotate in a position to for that space
to remain present and for that supinatus
tendon to pass through without being
rubbed on by bones okay so it is
possible so you're not going to
automatically impinge that super
spinatus tendon by flaring your elbows
in a bench bra in fact a lot of
bodybuilders like to flare their elbows
in a bench press why would a bodybuilder
like to flare their elbows in a bench
pressre of motion did you say increase
the range of motion not quite for the
range of motion you are right a
bodybuilder likes a longer range of
motion but rather it does create more
stretch on the peeg so let's think about
the position you want to be in when you
stretch your pecs how would you stretch
your pecs everyone yeah so everyone's
doing this like they're flaring their
humorous or they're flaring their elbows
humorous you know AB ducting to 90° to
the Torso so if we think about where the
pecs are where they attach we have the
sternal portion okay and then we have
the clavicular portion so that's the
origin so it's attached here and then
the insertion is on the front of the
humorous here on the outer lip of the
bicipital groove now here the length of
the PEC is is relaxed here it's getting
longer here it's even longer or being
lengthened or being stretched okay so
what do we know about muscle length and
hypertrophy potential what length is the
best to build the most muscle fully
stretched or fully shortened fully
stretched okay so therefore bodybuilders
like to use flared elbows for certain
techniques or pronated grip with
dumbbells Guillotine press these are
different variations where a bodybuilder
to build their pegs they'll be pressing
out here okay now here's the thing
there's a thing called Len tension
relationship so there's parts of the
muscle length that are the strongest and
the weakest does they don't know what
length of the muscle is the strongest
and weakest what's the strongest
mid-range is typically on most muscles
the strongest length of the muscle okay
and what's the weakest most shortened
and most stretched they're the weakest
portions in general okay so when we're
doing a powerlifting competition and
trying to shift the heaviest loads
possible we want to be positioning our
PE in the mid-range don't we so where
therefore should our elbows be that
that's fully stretched there's fully
shortened where's mid-range somewhere in
between there right okay so this is
another reason why we might want to
consider tucking the elbows slightly in
a bench press to not put it at the full
stretch position or that's why we don't
want to tuck our elbows too much so
sometimes people do that as well they
tuck the elbows too much thinking that's
the right thing not if you want to lift
the heaviest amount of loads if you have
some type of Peck issue and you want to
take pecs out of it tuck your elbows all
the way okay so if someone's ever had a
PEC tear or anything like that and you
want to re roduce bench press that's a
really good tool to use tuck the elbows
all the way use a close grip take the PC
out of the equation a little bit so that
we can use other muscles what are those
other muscles that we want to be using
with a close grip triceps deltoids as
well they're our main pushing muscles so
here's the fact of it in a bench press
for a powerlifting competition what
muscle do we want to use all of them do
we get it it's not a PEC exercise yeah I
want pecs but that's not all I want all
of them so the main pushing muscles hex
deltoids triceps I want to use as much
as possible and I want to evenly
distribute that load over all of those
muscles I don't want to do more pecs so
to do more pecs it's more fled that's
not as strong as well as we're putting
the Peck in the most stretched position
which is also not as strong as the
mid-range okay and then fully tucked is
also not quite strong not quite strong
not as strong okay because we are taking
more pecs out of the equation triceps
aren't stronger okay more muscle the
better